# Introduction
Since everything in the cluster is declaratively managed via GitHub/ArgoCD, I don't need a full cluster backup solution like Velero. Should a disaster befall my cluster, all I need to do is bootstrap it via Ansible and let ArgoCD handle everything else. The only things that need backups are the persistent volumes.

For all the volumes on the NAS, I use the NAS built-in backup utilities to backup those volumes as well as sync those backups to Onedrive for cases where the NAS also has a disaster. In the future, I may look at a different strategy where I directly backup to the cloud, so I won't be reliant on the NAS being functional and workload volumes restored before bootstrapping a new cluster. For that, I will consider [Volsync](https://github.com/backube/volsync). I have a [test setup](/volsync) I'm working on for that.

The only thing that remains are Longhorn volumes, which are used for my [media](/media-tools) apps. In a disaster, the current workflow involves first setting up Longhorn, manually restoring the volumes which are backed up using Longhorn-native tooling (pretty fast and straightforward), then starting the media apps. 

I can eliminate the manual process by switching backups to use [CSI volume snapshotting](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volume-snapshots/). This allows me to automatically restore a volume without manual intervention. To take advantage of this, we first must backup using volume snapshots. Since Longhorn volumes use a CSI driver, this is pretty straightforward and is handled via [CSI Drivers](/csi-drivers). The second thing is a scheduling tool, which is where [SnapScheduler](https://github.com/backube/snapscheduler) comes in. 

SnapScheduler will automatically backup any volumes that meet the desired criteria. 